# 1.0 - Accessing the Lab
This guide will help you configure your workstation to setup an SSH tunnel to the lab "jump server". You will then use this SSH tunnel to access your lab server(s). The SSH tunnel is an encrypted session that has the ability to encapsulate many different streams of traffic, including HTTP, DNS, and even other SSH logon sessions. This is accomplished using port redirection on your local workstation.
The script below will assign a high-numbered TCP port to various IP addresses and port combinations that exist within the lab environment. This tells your SSH client to redirect a connection to that high-numbered port to the corresponding server and port within the lab environment. This allows the lab server team to only expose SSH to the Internet, yet still allows you to access all the necessary ports in the lab without installing a special VPN client.

**Note:**
> Once you have established the SSH tunnel, you will make connections to your `localhost` using the port numbers listed at the bottom of this guide. The port numbers are based on your assigned server number, so please be very careful when entering the port numbers.


## Building the SSH tunnel
In this section you will configure your workstation to establish an SSH tunnel that you will later configure to pass specific TCP traffic from your workstation to the remote server.


### Platform-specific Notes
Windows systems may use PuTTY or another terminal emulator to control the SSH tunnel. Review the Mac/Linux setup instructions below to learn the specifics of the configuration. Due to the many permutations of configurations of Windows SSH clients, further details will not be contained here.

If you are running Mac or Linux as your workstation, follow these steps to configure the SSH tunnel.


## Step 1: SSH Keys
You will need to create an SSH key pair to access the lab servers.

1. If you have not created an SSH key pair on your workstation, you will need to run the following command to create a private and public key pair.
```
cd ~/
ssh-keygen -q -N ''
```
2. Copy your **PUBLIC** SSH key to the server. This is the file with the extension: `.pub`
```
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <your_user_name>@<hostname>
```

## Step 2: Update your SSH config file
You need to alter your SSH configuration files to create a tunnel that redirects specific TCP connections to "localhost" to your remote server on a different port number. 

1. In a terminal window, create the `controlmasters` directory for the SSH tunnel.
```
mkdir ~/.ssh/controlmasters
```

2. Using a text editor, add the following text to the file `~/.ssh/config`. 
**CAUTION!!**
> You must edit the hostname and user fields in the text below.

```
Host lab-tunnel
    Hostname <w.x.y.z.>
    User <username>
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    ControlPath ~/.ssh/controlmasters/%r@%h:%p
    ControlMaster auto
    ControlPersist 5m
    LocalForward 52201 192.168.120.1:22
    LocalForward 52202 192.168.120.2:22
    LocalForward 52203 192.168.120.3:22
    LocalForward 52204 192.168.120.4:22
    LocalForward 52205 192.168.120.5:22
    LocalForward 52206 192.168.120.6:22
    LocalForward 52207 192.168.120.7:22
    LocalForward 52208 192.168.120.8:22
    LocalForward 52209 192.168.120.9:22
    LocalForward 52210 192.168.120.10:22
    LocalForward 52211 192.168.120.11:22
    LocalForward 52212 192.168.120.12:22
    LocalForward 52213 192.168.120.13:22
    LocalForward 52214 192.168.120.14:22
    LocalForward 52215 192.168.120.15:22
    LocalForward 52216 192.168.120.16:22
    LocalForward 52217 192.168.120.17:22
    LocalForward 52218 192.168.120.18:22
    LocalForward 52219 192.168.120.19:22
    LocalForward 52220 192.168.120.20:22
```
3. Save the file and close the text editor.


## Step 3: Initializing the SSH tunnel
Once you have configured the key pair and mapped the ports in your SSH configuration file, you can open the SSH tunnel.

1. In a terminal window, launch the SSH tunnel with the `-fN` option. This will quickly run the commmand and return to the command prompt. It will appear as though it did nothing, however in the background it establishes the tunnel that you will use to connect to your lab server.
```
ssh -fN lab-tunnel
```
2. You can determine if the SSH tunnel is open and listening for connections by typing this command:
```
ssh -O status lab-tunnel
```
**Note:**
> The configuration above allows the SSH tunnel to automatically time out if you have no connections active for 5 minutes. If the tunnel closes, just reestablish it as needed.

3. When you are done using the tunnel, you may can manually close it by typing this command:
```
ssh -O stop lab-tunnel'
```
 
 
 
## Step 4: Connect to your lab server
If you used the SSH tunnel configuration above, you can access ports on your server through redirection. 

**Change the last two digits of the port to match your assigned lab server.**
```
ssh <username>@localhost -p 52201
```

**For example:**
> If the student were assigned server 07 in the lab:
> 1. On the student's workstation, open an SSH client.
> 2. Connect to the host address `localhost`, but instead of using `TCP/22`, enter the port number `52207` which redirects port 22 traffic to server 07.
> 
> **Note:**
>> Another way of writing this is `localhost:52207`
>> SSH uses a slightly different syntax from the command line: `ssh root@localhost -p52207`



This process will redirect input and output over the encrypted SSH tunnel. You may add more ports by editing the SSH config file; however for the change to take effect, you must close the SSH tunnel by typing `ssh -O stop lab-tunnel`, and then restart the tunnel by typing `ssh -fN lab-tunnel`.


