# 2.0 Running the Lab Exercise
The steps in this section should be followed by the student to run the lab.

Current state assumption:
* The server has been updated to Ubuntu 18.04.2 (Kernel 4.20)
* The root account is permitted to logon via SSH
* The following software is installed: OVS, 2 VM routers, and TRex.
* The OVS, VMs, nor TRex are configured to run at boot.

## Start the OVS and VMs

1. Logon to the host as root via SSH:
```
ssh root@<hostname>
```
2. Change to the lab scripts directory.
```
cd ${git_base_path}/scripts
```
3. Start the Open vSwitch
```
./step-3-start-ovs.sh
```
4. Start the Virtual Machine routers
```
./step-4-start-vms.sh
```
**Note:**
> The console may show a message regarding the virtual machine networking. Please just press ENTER to display the command prompt again. 

5. Start the TRex Server
```
./step-5-start-trex.sh
```


&nbsp;

## Start the OVS and VMs

The final step of this process configures and launches TRex. You may view the live dashboard by typing `tui` in the TRex console. You may need to increase your SSH window size, as the TUI has a minimum screen size requirement.

The configuration automatically starts a workload running a continuous stream of 64 byte packets that are then routed through the Virtual Machines in the second NUMA node.
You will leave this terminal window open for the remainder of the lab so that you can monitor the performance of the server.



&nbsp;


## Experiment with SST-BF
In this task you will open a new SSH terminal window where you will run the script to enable and disable SST-BF on your CPUs. In your TRex console window, you will see the number of packets per second increase when you activate SST-BF.

**Note:**
> Do **not** terminate your current SSH terminal.

1. In a new SSH terminal window, logon to the host as root via SSH:
```
ssh root@<hostname>
```
2. Load the environment variables into your shell session.
```
cd ${git_base_path}/scripts
```
3. In your TRex console window, take note of the current number of received packets per second (pps).

4. Activate the SST-BF features of the CPU by running the command: `./sstbf.py -a`

> Note that this increases the base frequency of the CPU cores assigned to the virtual network switch (OVS).



