# 2.0 - Building a New Lab Server

This set of instructions walks you through building a lab server from a fresh installation through to the point the student may logon and execute the configuration scripts for each lab.
After a student completes a lab, they must only reboot the host to reset the configuration for the next lab. 
No service should automatically startup unless it will be used in every lab. 

## Clean Build Stage
This section builds the server to a basic, clean level without custom applications. At the end of this process, an image could be taken of the server for rapid deployment.

Current state assumption:
* The server is a fresh installation of Ubuntu 18.04.2 (Kernel 4.15)
* The root account is not yet permitted to logon via SSH
* The credentials are: `username: pid` and `password: password`
* The user `pid` is not yet in the sudoers file, 

### Logon and gain root access to the Server
1. Logon to the host as `pid`, password `password`
```
ssh pid@<hostname>
```
2. Enter Super User mode and allow root to logon via SSH. The root password is `password`
```
su
```
3. Allow root to logon via SSH.
```
echo "PermitRootLogin yes" >> /etc/ssh/sshd_config
service sshd restart
```
4. Exit Super User mode.
```
exit
```
5. Type `exit` again to logout of the host as user `pid`, and return to your workstation.
```
exit
```

### Enable password-less SSH connections from your workstation
1. Push your public SSH key to the server.
```
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub root@<hostname>
```
2. Enter the root password of `password` when prompted to save the key.

3. From now on, you may logon to the host as root via SSH without using a password.
```
ssh root@<hostname>
```


## Prepare the lab server using the Pre-Scripts
There are a set of scripts that should be uploaded to the lab server to aid in the configuration. You will then remotely execute some of these scripts via SSH to complete the setup process. 

**Note:**
> You may wish to clone the git repository to your local workstation (or your jump box) so that you have easy access to the `/pre-scripts` directory and its contents.
> To clone the repo to your current directory use the commend: `git clone https://github.com/brianeiler/ovs-dpdk.git ovs-dpdk-lab` 
> This will create a folder called `ovs-dpdk-lab` and synchronize the git repo to that folder.
> To update this folder in the future, enter the directory and then type `git pull`. Your workstation will automatically download the newest version of the scripts and documentation.


### Edit the Pre-scripts
The scripts rely upon the file `0-ovs-dpdk-global-variables.sh`. Edit this file to adjust the destination directories and other particulars of your configuration and system.


### Upload the scripts

1. You must first either clone this Git repo to your workstation, or download the shell scripts in the `/pre-scripts` directory of this repo. For these instructions, we will assume that the source files are in the `./pre-scripts` subdirectory of your current working directory.

2. Copy the files to the lab server.
```
scp ./pre-scripts/*.sh root@<hostname>:~
```

### Execute the pre-scripts

You will now use SSH to remotely execute the pre-scripts. Alternatively, you may logon to the servers via SSH and run the scripts interactively as normal. These instructions are designed to minimize the interactive logon requirements when building a number of lab servers.

1. Run the first script: `ssh root@<hostname> './1-kernel_upgrade.sh'`

2. Wait for the server to reboot. the first script downloads an updated kernel, installs it, and then reboots the server. This may take 2-3 minutes.

3. Run the package installation script: `ssh root@<hostname> './2-package_download.sh'`

4. If there are no errors, run the git hub script:  `ssh root@<hostname> './3-github_clone.sh'`



# Continue to the Configuration guide in the '/docs` directory of this repository to complete the server build process.




**Note:**
> Occasionally DNS on the lab server may fail to resolve public addresses.
> If DNS fails to resolve the name, restart DNS:
> `systemctl restart systemd-resolved.service`
>
> If that fails, you may need to manually add a DNS server:
> ```
> echo "DNS=8.8.8.8" >> /etc/systemd/resolved.conf
> systemctl restart systemd-resolved.service
> ```


