# 3.0 - Configuring the Lab Server
The steps in this section prepare the host for the lab by cloning a GitHub repository.

Current state assumption:
* The server has been updated to Ubuntu 18.04.2 (Kernel 4.20)
* The root account is permitted to logon via SSH

## Install basic utilities
These are tools and utilities that are required by the lab.
Software to install:
* tmux (Terminal emulator)
* curl (CLI-based web browser)
* git (GitHub client for downloading the scripts)

1. Logon to the host as root via SSH:
```
ssh root@<hostname>
```

2. Update the repositories and install the basic utilities:
```
apt update
apt install -y curl
apt install -y tmux
apt install -y git
```
3. Disable the automatic (background) upgrades that can create version mismatch. This is a security risk, but this is also a lab terminal and therefore should never be used in a production capacity or to host sensitive data. The important aspect of a lab terminal is the reliable execution of written procedures, and therefore automatic updates that could impact the behavior of the lab must be disabled. To do so, enter this command:
```
apt remove -y unattended-upgrades
```

## Clone the GitHub repository for the lab
Clone the repository to the `/opt/ovs-dpdk-lab` directory
```
cd /opt
git clone https://github.com/brianeiler/ovs-dpdk.git ovs-dpdk-lab
cd /opt/ovs-dpdk-lab
```

## Run the Build Step Scripts
There are build scripts that perform many of the remaining steps for you. These scripts are only run one time and should NOT be run again unless the server has been rebuilt.

1. Run the first build script to download the remaining files from the Internet.
```
cd /opt/ovs-dpdk-lab/scripts
./step-1-download.sh
```
2. Run the second build script which unpacks and compiles the software.
```
cd /opt/ovs-dpdk-lab/scripts
./step-2-build.sh
```
3. Reboot the server as directed by the script. This implements the changes to GRUB.
```
init 6
```


# Continue to the next document in the build process.
